add: guide on kerascv conversion tool. (#2169)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/using-diffusers/kerascv.mdx

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Using KerasCV Stable Diffusion Checkpoints in Diffusers

<Tip warning={true}>

This is an experimental feature.

</Tip>

[KerasCV](https://github.com/keras-team/keras-cv/) provides APIs for implementing various computer vision workflows. It
also provides the Stable Diffusion [v1 and v2](https://github.com/keras-team/keras-cv/blob/master/keras_cv/models/stable_diffusion)

> models. Many practitioners find it easy to fine-tune the Stable Diffusion models shipped by KerasCV. However, as of this writing, KerasCV offers limited support to experiment with Stable Diffusion models. On the other hand,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
models. Many practitioners find it easy to fine-tune the Stable Diffusion models shipped by KerasCV. However, as of this writing, KerasCV offers limited support to experiment with Stable Diffusion models for inference and deployment. On the other hand,
```

Maybe clarify we are not talking about research experiments?

Author: Nothing salient comes to mind for commenting about it.

Diffusers provides tooling dedicated to this purpose (and more), such as different [noise schedulers](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/using-diffusers/schedulers), [flash attention](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/optimization/xformers), and [other 
optimization techniques](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/optimization/fp16).

> How about fine-tuning Stable Diffusion models in KerasCV and export them such that they become compatible in Diffusers to combine the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How about fine-tuning Stable Diffusion models in KerasCV and exporting them such that they become compatible with Diffusers to combine the
```

> How about fine-tuning Stable Diffusion models in KerasCV and export them such that they become compatible in Diffusers to combine the
> best of both worlds? We have created a [tool](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sayakpaul/convert-kerascv-sd-diffusers) that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How about combining the best of both worlds by fine-tuning Stable Diffusion models in KerasCV and exporting them to Diffusers? We have created a [tool](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sayakpaul/convert-kerascv-sd-diffusers) that
```

Slight simplification

> lets you do just that! It takes a KerasCV Stable Diffusion checkpoints and exports them to Diffusers-compatible checkpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lets you do just that! It takes KerasCV Stable Diffusion checkpoints and exports them to Diffusers-compatible checkpoints.
```

> lets you do just that! It takes a KerasCV Stable Diffusion checkpoints and exports them to Diffusers-compatible checkpoints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
lets you do just that! It takes a KerasCV Stable Diffusion checkpoints and exports it to Diffusers-compatible checkpoints.
```

More specifically, it first converts the checkpoints to PyTorch and then wraps them into a
[`StableDiffusionPipeline`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/overview) which is ready
for inference. Finally, it pushes the converted checkpoints to a repository on the Hugging Face Hub. 

We welcome you to try out the tool [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sayakpaul/convert-kerascv-sd-diffusers)
and share feedback via [discussions](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sayakpaul/convert-kerascv-sd-diffusers/discussions/new). 

> ## Getting started 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting Started 
```

First, you need to obtain the fine-tuned KerasCV Stable Diffusion checkpoints. We provide an

> overview of the different ways Stable Diffusion models can be fine-tuned [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/training/overview). For Keras implementations of some of these methods, you can check out the resources below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
overview of the different ways Stable Diffusion models can be fine-tuned [using `diffusers`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/training/overview). For the Keras implementation of some of these methods, you can check out these resources:
```

* [Teach StableDiffusion new concepts via Textual Inversion](https://keras.io/examples/generative/fine_tune_via_textual_inversion/)
* [Fine-tuning Stable Diffusion](https://keras.io/examples/generative/finetune_stable_diffusion/)
* [DreamBooth](https://keras.io/examples/generative/dreambooth/)
* [Prompt-to-Prompt editing](https://github.com/miguelCalado/prompt-to-prompt-tensorflow)

A Stable Diffusion model has three primary components:

* Text encoder 
* UNet 
* VAE 

> Depending on the fine-tuning task, we may fine-tune one of more of these components (the VAE is almost always left untouched). Here are some common combinations:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on the fine-tuning task, we may fine-tune one or more of these components (the VAE is almost always left untouched). Here are some common combinations:
```

> * DreamBooth: Text encoder and UNet 

Reviewer 3: (nit)
```suggestion
* DreamBooth: UNet and Text encoder 
```

> * Classical text2image: UNet 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Classical text to image fine-tuning: UNet 
```

> * Textual Inversion: Text encoder 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Textual Inversion: Just the newly initialized embeddings in the text encoder.
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add another section here?

```suggestion

## Performing the Conversion

```

Let's use [this checkpoint](https://huggingface.co/sayakpaul/textual-inversion-kerasio/resolve/main/textual_inversion_kerasio.h5) which was generated
by conducting Textual Inversion with the following "placeholder token": `<my-funny-cat-token>`. 

On the tool, we supply the following things: 

* Path(s) to download the fine-tuned checkpoint(s) (KerasCV)
* An HF token 
* Placeholder token (only applicable for Textual Inversion)

<div align="center">

> <img src="https://i.imgur.com/JMATVKJ.png"/>

Reviewer: Are we keeping this in `imgur` or moving to documentation images? Same with the others.

Author: I will move to `documentation-images` :)

</div> 

As soon as you hit "Submit", the conversion process will begin. Once it's complete, you should see the following:

<div align="center">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/gJyVD9g.png"/>
</div> 

If you click the [link](https://huggingface.co/sayakpaul/textual-inversion-cat-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline/tree/main), you
should see something like so: 

<div align="center">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/vl6w7Zm.png"/>
</div> 

If you head over to the [model card of the repository](https://huggingface.co/sayakpaul/textual-inversion-cat-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline), the
following should appear: 

<div align="center">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/PxCNRFh.png"/>
</div> 

> _**Note that we're not specifying the UNet weights here since the UNet is not fine-tuned during Textual Inversion.**_

Reviewer: I don't understand what this means, sorry. Is this about the first step in the conversion process? If so, I'd put this comment (maybe as a `tip`) below the corresponding screenshot.

And that's it! You now have your fine-tuned KerasCV Stable Diffusion model in Diffusers 🧨

> ## Usage in Diffusers 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the Converted Model in Diffusers 
```

> Just besides the model card of the [repository](https://huggingface.co/sayakpaul/textual-inversion-cat-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline), 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Just beside the model card of the [repository](https://huggingface.co/sayakpaul/textual-inversion-cat-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline), 
```

you'd notice an inference widget to try out the model directly from the UI 🤗

<div align="center">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/jv8Ikes.png"/>
</div> 

On the top right hand side, we provide a "Use in Diffusers" button. If you click the button, you should see the following code-snippet: 

```py 
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

pipeline = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("sayakpaul/textual-inversion-cat-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline")
```

> Let's perform inference! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The model is in standard `diffusers` format. Let's perform inference!
```

(Just to stress it, so they don't need to study the following code in depth if they are already familiar with the API).

```py
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

pipeline = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("sayakpaul/textual-inversion-cat-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline")
pipeline.to("cuda")

placeholder_token = "<my-funny-cat-token>"
prompt = f"two {placeholder_token} getting married, photorealistic, high quality"
image = pipeline(prompt, num_inference_steps=50).images[0]
```

And we get: 

<div align="center">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/0uTomgz.png"/>
</div> 

_**Note that if you specified a `placeholder_token` while performing the conversion, the tool will log it accordingly. Refer
to the model card of [this repository](https://huggingface.co/sayakpaul/textual-inversion-cat-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline)
as an example.**_

We welcome you to use the tool for various Stable Diffusion fine-tuning scenarios and let us know your feedback! Here are some examples 
of Diffusers checkpoints that were obtained using the tool: 

* [sayakpaul/text-unet-dogs-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline](https://huggingface.co/sayakpaul/text-unet-dogs-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline)

> * [sayakpaul/unet-dogs-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline](https://huggingface.co/sayakpaul/unet-dogs-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline)

Reviewer: Maybe mention where did these come from: dreambooth, fine-tuning?

> ## Incorporating Diffusers goodies 🎁

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Incorporating Diffusers Goodies 🎁
```

Diffusers provides various options that one can leverage to experiment with different inference setups. One particularly
useful option is the use of a different noise scheduler during inference other than what was used during fine-tuning. 
Let's try out the [`DPMSolverMultistepScheduler`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/schedulers/multistep_dpm_solver)
which is different from the one ([`DDPMScheduler`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/schedulers/ddpm)) used during
fine-tuning.

```
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, DPMSolverMultistepScheduler

pipeline = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("sayakpaul/textual-inversion-cat-kerascv_sd_diffusers_pipeline")
pipeline.scheduler = DPMSolverMultistepScheduler.from_config(pipeline.scheduler.config)
pipeline.to("cuda")

placeholder_token = "<my-funny-cat-token>"
prompt = f"two {placeholder_token} getting married, photorealistic, high quality"
image = pipeline(prompt, num_inference_steps=50).images[0]
```

<div align="center">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/fYHgzSc.png"/>
</div> 

> One can also continue fine-tuning from these Diffusers checkpoint leveraging efficient optimization tools from Diffusers. Refer [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/fp16) for 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One can also continue fine-tuning from these Diffusers checkpoints by leveraging efficient optimization tools from Diffusers. Refer [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/fp16) for 
```

> One can also continue fine-tuning from these Diffusers checkpoint leveraging efficient optimization tools from Diffusers. Refer [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/fp16) for 

Reviewer: I think that page was meant for inference, not training. Maybe we want to link to the training section too?
Question: do we handle ema/non-ema weights somehow (if they were present in the original models)?

> One can also continue fine-tuning from these Diffusers checkpoint leveraging efficient optimization tools from Diffusers. Refer [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/fp16) for 

Author: Sure, any link you have in mind? 

> Question: do we handle ema/non-ema weights somehow (if they were present in the original models)?

If EMA is used, it's just returned as is such that it behaves similarly in TensorFlow / Keras. So, on the conversion side, it won't matter.

> One can also continue fine-tuning from these Diffusers checkpoint leveraging efficient optimization tools from Diffusers. Refer [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/optimization/fp16) for 

Author: In my Keras implementations, if you use EMA during fine-tuning, the EMA'd model is returned such that it won't need any separate treatment during model loading. So, the EMA status of a model doesn't affect the conversion workflow here. 

If you used EMA, only the EMA'd checkpoints are returned in my Keras implementations. But if this behavior is customized, then it's up to the user to specify the weights accordingly.

more details.  

> ## Known limitations 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known Limitations 
```

for inference. Finally, it pushes the converted checkpoints to a repository on the Hugging Face Hub. 

We welcome you to try out the tool [here](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sayakpaul/convert-kerascv-sd-diffusers)
and share feedback via [discussions](https://huggingface.co/spaces/sayakpaul/convert-kerascv-sd-diffusers/discussions/new). 

## Getting Started 

First, you need to obtain the fine-tuned KerasCV Stable Diffusion checkpoints. We provide an
overview of the different ways Stable Diffusion models can be fine-tuned [using `diffusers`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/training/overview). For the Keras implementation of some of these methods, you can check out these resources:

* [Teach StableDiffusion new concepts via Textual Inversion](https://keras.io/examples/generative/fine_tune_via_textual_inversion/)
* [Fine-tuning Stable Diffusion](https://keras.io/examples/generative/finetune_stable_diffusion/)
* [DreamBooth](https://keras.io/examples/generative/dreambooth/)
* [Prompt-to-Prompt editing](https://github.com/miguelCalado/prompt-to-prompt-tensorflow)

> A Stable Diffusion model has three primary components:

Reviewer 4: (nit) when we refer to `components` in `diffusers` we usually include the `scheduler` as well. 
See, e.g.:
- https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/pipelines/overview#pipelines
- https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/180841bbde4b200be43350164eef80c93a68983a/src/diffusers/pipelines/pipeline_utils.py#L775

both include the scheduler as components. Would rather use "models" here
